[Music]
here's a million dollar question for you
what's the secret to looking buff and
strong I guess a broad muscular chest
massive arms and a popping six-pack
right but you can't forget about leg day
come on guys you don't want to look like
you're walking around on toothpicks
forget the gym and just give this quick
at-home leg building workout a try
starting with number one walking lunges
take a big step forward on your right
foot while doing that bend your left leg
so that your knee almost touches the
floor then with the help of your right
leg move your body into the next lunge
this time your left leg should be in
front of you and your right leg will
bend toward the floor do three sets of
walking lunges with 12 reps each and
remember to take a 30 second rest after
each set when doing this exercise the
muscles in the front of your leg work
the most since they have to move your
whole body up and forward this not only
strengthens all the leg muscles but also
improves your balance and stability
number two regular squats stand straight
with your legs shoulder-width apart and
your feet parallel to each other
bend your knees to slowly lower your
body toward the ground
imagine you're about to sit down in an
invisible chair go as far down as you
can with your elbows touching your knees
keep your chest and head upright and
make sure your knees don't go beyond
your toes stay in this position for
three to five seconds
then stand back up by pressing through
your heels most of all squats work your
calves hamstrings and quadriceps but
they're also pretty effective for
building up your abs and strengthening
your lower back and glutes besides
they're a great way to burn tons of
calories really fast maintain your
health and improve your lung capacity
do three sets of 12 reps each but no
rest in between you should immediately
move to the next exercise which is
number three squat jumps squat down like
you did in that last exercise by
lowering your body so that your thighs
are parallel to the ground stay in this
position for at least three seconds but
this time you'll launch yourself upward
from the squat when you jump in the air
lift your arms up over your head return
to the squat position then jump again
and sorry no breaks between the jumps
three sets of twelve will be perfect for
this one too and feel free to take a
30-second break to rest between sets
this exercise helps tone your calves
quads and hamma's mmm ham as well as
your glutes and core muscles it's also
cool and that it involves the arms a
little more than traditional squats and
definitely a lot more cardio number four
split squats for this exercise you can
use any suitable surface a sofa chair
your bed the main thing is that it's
stable enough to hold some of your
weight and won't fall over as you're
doing the exercise stand with your back
to the piece of furniture of your choice
and rest your right foot on it laces
down slowly
squat down with your left leg until your
right knee almost touches the floor hold
it there for three seconds hello try to
keep your balance then with the strength
of your left leg
stand back up do three sets of 12 reps
on each leg with no rest when you change
legs a 30 second break between sets is
okay and probably much needed this is a
great lower body exercise since
squatting deeply with just one leg
really targets the stabilizer muscles
and as a bonus improves your balance
also feel free to hold the dumbbell in
each hand if you want to take this one
up a step
[Music]
number five squad pulses get into the
starting position for a squad feet
shoulder-width apart pointing ahead and
all that jazz again go down into a squat
until your thighs are parallel to the
floor but this time when you hit the
lowest point in your squad do a few
pulses by moving your hips up and down
for about five seconds then return to
the starting position the trick is that
when you do the pulses you constantly
engage and stimulate your leg muscles
plus you can hold the movement longer
and tire your muscles in a different way
than when you do just a standard squats
shoot to do this exercise for one minute
straight and take a 30 second break
before moving on to number six elevated
calf raises yes let's give those thighs
a breather and work on your calves stand
on a fitness block with your heels
hanging off if you have a staircase the
first step will do - if it's hard to
keep your balance hold on to something
like a nearby wall for support lift your
heels so that all your body weight is
put on the balls of your feet then lower
your heels toward the floor as much as
you can so that you feel a nice stretch
in your calves do three sets of 12 reps
with a 30 second break between sets as
always a dumbbell in your free hand will
take things up a notch
which is an especially useful trick once
you've built up so much strength that
your bodyweight is no longer enough this
exercise will have your calves looking
bigger stronger and more defined plus it
increases your ankle strength so you
won't be as prone to spraining or
twisting them number seven lunge jumps
start by standing with your right leg
forward and your arms crossed over your
chest bend your knees and lower your
body into a deep lunge your left knee
should almost brush the floor then like
a spring jump into the air fully
extending your legs well your midair
switch legs bringing your left leg
forward and your right leg back land in
a lunge and without a break launch your
body up into the next jump lunge jumps
develop your lower body strength and
endurance by tart
the quadriceps hamstrings caps glutes
and hip flexors besides it's a perfect
cardio exercise and it stabilizes your
core improves your coordination and
builds ankle stability do this exercise
for one minute if you can then go
straight to number eight step ups for
this exercise you'll need a bench
anaerobic step or anything sturdy enough
and about knee high stand in front of
the platform you've chosen with your
feet parallel and shoulder width apart
from each other put your right foot on
the platform and by pushing through this
foot propel your body into the air until
your left foot ends up next to your
right one pause for a couple of seconds
then lower first your left leg and then
your right one back to the floor this
exercise works pretty much every muscle
in your legs as well as your glutes for
an added bonus can't have strong
muscular legs under a flat touch now do
three sets of the exercise with 12 reps
for each leg remember to complete the
reps on one leg before moving to the
other don't take a break when you switch
legs but feel free to rest for half a
minute between sets you should also know
that this exercise can be a bit tough on
the knees so be sure to do everything
slowly and control number 9 single leg
bridge lie down on the floor with your
arms by your sides your legs bend to the
knee and feet flat on the floor now lift
your right leg into the air keep that
knee bent slightly tighten your core and
glute muscles and lift your hips off the
floor so that your body forms a straight
line from your shoulders to your left
knee hold that position for a couple
seconds then without lowering your leg
down return to the starting position
with your back on the floor don't switch
to the right leg until you do all the
reps for the left one which will be 12
and of course three sets for each leg
we'll do it the single leg bridge is a
great exercise to work all three glute
muscles train your hamstrings and
strengthen your lower back if it seems
too easy for you do this exercise with a
barbell or dumbbell lying securely
across your hip bones
and make sure to avoid the most common
mistakes people make while doing single
leg bridges first of all don't arch your
back when you lift your hips in the air
otherwise you can end up with a nasty
back injury also don't let your hips sag
or rotate keep everything controlled and
tight you have to use your muscles for
that what exercises do you use to train
your legs let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
squat jumping away just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life